---
title: "Best practices for contributing"
description: "Best practices for contributing to the archive"
date: 2022-01-09T12:51:25-05:00
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "contributing"
weight: 202
---

This page outlines some best practices to follow when contributing content to
Ace Archive.

## Respect creators

Please be respectful of creators, particularly independent creators, when
deciding whether to rehost content.

The purpose of rehosting content on Ace Archive is to preserve files which are
in danger of becoming lost media. We may remove files from submissions that we
feel are included in bad faith.

If you want your content removed from this site, feel free to [contact us]({{<
ref "contact"
>}}).

## Respect the privacy of individuals

When listing the people associated with an artifact, make sure to respect the
privacy of individuals. This means using handles or usernames when a person
typically goes by a pseudonym online. Additionally, you must **never** use a
person's deadname.

If you have any privacy concerns about content on this site, feel free to
[contact us]({{< ref "contact" >}}).


## Make content accessible

If the content is in a format that's not accessible (such as a photo, a video,
or a digital scan of a physical document), include transcripts/subtitles where
possible. When adding transcripts as separate files, make sure it's clear which
files are transcripts and what they're transcripts of.

Plain HTML documents using semantic elements where appropriate are a great
choice for creating accessible transcripts of documents and photos. We provide
CSS you can use for styling plain HTML which is simple, readable, and will
respect the user's light/dark theme preference.

We provide a template HTML file that links to our CSS to get you started.

{{< transcript-link >}}
Download the transcript template here.
{{< /transcript-link >}}

For video subtitles, we prefer closed captions (softsubs) to open captions
(hardsubs). Closed captions allow the user to customize things like the font
size, and they also allow for different subtitles for different languages as
well as SDH subtitles.

If a transcript was generated by a robot, like OCR transcripts or auto-generated
subtitles, make this clear in the name of the file.

Finally, if you find this website inaccessible or difficult to use, we consider
that a high-priority bug. Please [contact us]({{< ref "contact" >}}) however is
easiest for you.

## Include citations where applicable

If the artifact contains a published work, include a citation for it as a
separate file using a standardized file format like BibTeX. These
files can be imported into reference managers like
[Zotero](https://www.zotero.org/) and help people cite the work or find it on
the legacy web.

## Include both files and links in artifacts when possible

The two ways to include content in an artifact are *files* and *links*.

If the content is a file like a PDF, image, or video, include it in the artifact
as a file and also add a link to where it can be found on the web. This ensures
that people can always trace where content came from.

When possible, make sure you link to reputable, permanent sites like libraries,
journal databases, or archives like the Internet Archive.

{{< alert icon="👉" >}}
Some libraries and journal databases will provide a permalink somewhere on the
page which is different than the URL in your address bar. Always use a permalink
when one is provided.
{{< /alert >}}

## Include Wayback links when linking to websites

When a primary source is a website like a blog or forum thread, the easiest way
to include it in an artifact is to add a link. If the website is no longer
available on the web, include a [Wayback Machine](https://web.archive.org/)
link.

However, even if the website is still available on the web, you should
include a Wayback link alongside a regular link. This ensures that even if the
content moves, changes, or is taken down, users can still find it. If the
website is also an archive or online database like the Internet Archive, you
don't need to include a Wayback link.

You can give both the regular link and the Wayback link the same name in the
artifact; the artifact page on Ace Archive will show which is the archive link
with an icon.

If you need to archive a page that the Wayback Machine isn't able to crawl,
such as a page behind a confirmation prompt or login page, check out {{<
article "docs/contributing/web-archives.md" >}} for an alternative approach.

## Download videos from sites like YouTube

If you want to contribute a video that's hosted on a video sharing platform like
YouTube, in addition to linking to the source, consider downloading the video
directly using a tool like [youtube-dl](https://ytdl-org.github.io/youtube-dl/)
and adding it to the artifact as a file. Contrary to the name, youtube-dl
supports many sites besides YouTube; you can find a full list of supported sites
[here](https://github.com/ytdl-org/youtube-dl/blob/master/docs/supportedsites.md).

## Use existing tags when possible

When listing the people and identities associated with an artifact, prefer using
identities and names as they currently appear in other artifacts in the archive.
So if "gray-asexual" already exists in the archive, don't add "grey-asexual" or
"gray-ace" unless there's a good reason (e.g. the author of a work makes a case
that they're distinct identities).

## Use links to provide context

Because Ace Archive is intended to be an archive of primary sources rather than
a wiki or encyclopedia, the descriptions of artifacts should generally be kept
brief. However, if context is required to understand an artifact, you can
include a link to an outside website that provides the necessary context for the
artifact.
